# Becoming a Gaslighter

One of the original motivations for creating Gaslight was create a
place where awesome people could work together. We are always
open to talking with interesting people about working together.

Eventually, everyone who is a "gaslighter" is a full-time employee. We
value pair programming, teamwork, and collaboration. At this time we
are all co-located. Occationally someone will work from home, but the
majority of time is spent in our office, working closely with other
people.

## How does that work?

There are really two sides to this question. Our team makeup and
health are our top priority. We want to know how your values map to
ours and how your character strengths match ours. We can sometimes
tell how well someone fits socially and value-wise through an
interview, but sometimes not. Really, the only way to be sure is
through time.

The other side is the technical skills you possess and how well those
mesh with our skill set. That may be easiest for us to determine for
developers, but designers, project managers, office managers,
accountants, salespeople all have techical skills.

The answer to both questions, values and skills, can only really be
measured with time. An hour during the interview isn't enough time for
us to really get to know you. Interviewing itself is a skill and may
or may not correspond to the role we're looking to hire.

## Let's do stuff

Ideally, the best way for us to learn more about you is to work
together. For developers we'd like to pair program together. For
designers we'd like to work on a project and try to integrate your
work with ours.

If you're interested in working with us, we're interested in figuring
out a way to make that work.

### Sub-Contracting

We could go as far as to hire you as a sub-contractor for a week to
work on a client project. This really gives us a view into how you'll
fit in, your skill level in relavent technologies, and your personal
process. We'll also see you demonstrate your character and values in
real situations. This also gives you time to see how we really run
projects; not just words on our blog or user groups.

This is a big commitment from you and from us to organize. If you're a
full-time employee it might mean taking a week off to come work with
us. If you're a freelancer, it could mean significantly adjusting your
schedule to fit a week in with us.

We understand this is hard to do, but it gives us the best feel for
how we'll work together. If you are a freelancer and have
availability, by all means let us know and we'll see if there's a way
to integrate you in on a project.

### Apprenticeship, Internship, and Co-ops

We have been hiring co-ops each term for well over a year. We have
very low structure in our office. The team is self-organizing around
our current initiatives and projects. This can make it challenging for
someone new to figure out where they fit in; particularly if they
don't have a lot of experience.

Over time, we've become much better at working with students. It's
still far from perfect, but overall we give students an excellent
learning opportunity. What you, as a student, make of the opportunity
is largely up to you. If you know what your objectives are, we can
help you achieve those.

In one case, we asked a co-op to come back and then we hired them
permanently. That is a pattern likely to repeat. By working with
students over a long period of time it gives us an excellent
opportunity to learn more about them and how they fit in with us.

If you are interested in a co-op position we would be glad to talk
with you.

### Nights and Weekends

Given the level of team collaboration we use, it's tricky for us to
work together using nights and weekends. As a rule, we pursue
"sustainable pace." That means we rarely do client work in off hours.

We do participate in community events regularly in the evenings;
especially the Cincinnati.rb, Cincy.js, and the cocoa-dev group. Over
time we get to establish longer term relationships with people through
those groups. In fact, Gaslight itself came out of relationships
formed in the xp-cininnati group. If you're not already participating
in a local user group, you should. Engaging in our local community and
sharing what we know is one of our core values.

We have been known to hack with people in off hours on open source
projects. These hacking sessions are ad hoc based on mutual interests.
They serve multiple purposes: it "scratches the itch" and gets things
done while also letting us learn how you work.

If you have a project you'd like help with, by all means talk to us.
Maybe one of us are interested in it too.

## Conclusion

We are always interested in talking with people about coming on board
with Gaslight. We're not always able to hire, but we really like
forming relationships with tech people. Even if you're not really
interested in being hired by Gaslight, we would still enjoy working
together. Working with cool people on cool things is a big motivator
for us.

That said, we're unlikely to hire someone without knowing them fairly
well. Hang around us. We're a good bunch! Who knows what will come of
it?

If you want to work with us, say so. We'll try to find a way to make
it happen.
