# Apprenticeships

The goal of this program is to help developers get started in our
industry. While a properly motivated individual can certainly learn to
become a developer on their own, we believe through our mentorship we
can accelerate the time required to do this.

Another goal of this system is to engage as much of the whole Gaslight
team in the training as possible. Our team has a wide variety of
skills and strengths. Many hands make light work in addition to giving
apprentices broad exposure.

There is a somewhat conflicting goal here from an apprentice sponsor.
We understand there's a need to realize value based on investment. Our
hope is to deliver working and useful software at regular intervals.
However, our primary goal is to deliver effective developers.

## Strategy

Different people have different styles of learning. We want to provide
the resources needed to allow each individual to learn at their
maximum rate. Here are the components we're prepared to offer:

1. *Individual learning time.* At Gaslight, continuous learning is one
of our core values. We allow time for learning. Also, we can help an
apprentice developer prioritize and select material from the wealth of
options available. We will not be providing a specified curriculum.
Instead, we help each individual set a personal learning plan based on
their current skill levels and where we think they should go as a
developer.

2. *Co-learning through guided projects.* Beyond watching videos,
reading blogs, and following tutorials to really learn a subject
requires doing real work. There are two different types of projects:
somewhat contrived problems to illustrate a technique or skill, and
real problems required by clients or businesses. Both are valuable.
Contrived problems gives you context in which a technology can be
used. But real problems have real constraints and real pressures to
deliver.

We practice pair programming on much of our work. Like other aspects of
our trade, this is a learned skill. Our intention is to pair
apprentices together. This allows them to work through problems
together, hopefully at a faster pace than could be done solo. By
having two apprentices at similar skill levels, neither is given a
"free ride"; both are required to work through the material and carry
their own weight.

Another core aspect of our culture is how we run projects. The
specifics of how to run agile projects has much to do with our success
as a consulting company. Having apprentices working through projects
with us from start to finish allows them to understand the "why" of
our "how".

3. *Daily mentoring and feedback.* Gaslight's origins are with
development. It's still our core strength. We have lots of developers
on site. Without a doubt, apprentices in our office will naturally
receive feedback and encouragement. Beyond that, we will set aside
time each day to review and answer questions.

4. *Regular code reviews.* While delivering working software is a core
value, the purpose of the apprenticeship program is to deliver
effective developers.  To that end, we will be reviewing work.
Features may require several iterations to get the code "up to snuff".

## Day to Day

We want the apprentices to spend as much time at our office as
possible. We also understand that sponsors also want the apprentices
to gain understanding of their business and culture.

*Apprentices will work three days at the Gaslight office, and two days
 at the sponsor office each week.*

There are a couple of roles required from Gaslight. First is the
"Instructor". This role will be filled by a single individual over the
duration of the program. Each "Gaslight Day" will begin with an hour
long session with the Instructor. The purpose of this session is to
review and plan work for the day focusing on design and strategy.

The other role is "Mentor". This is a role that can be rotated through
the Gaslight team. Each day a smaller amount of time is allocated
(maybe 30 minutes) for the apprentice to simply ask more questions and
explain what they're doing. The purpose is to give the apprentice
exposure to more developers. Also, having a variety of people
answering questions can help the apprentice to understand from
multiple perspectives.

Each non-Gaslight day can be spent as seen fit by both the Sponsor and
Apprentice. This could be working on development projects, learning
and study, or other tasks needed.

## Specifics

We are proposing taking on both Marc and RJ as apprentices sponsored
by STC Media. This means that STC Media hires them as employees under
whatever terms are favorable to them. STC Media would then also pay
Gaslight to mentor and train Marc and RJ.

We have not yet had apprentices at Gaslight. We don't know what all is
entailed. We have done a fair amount of research and preparation
leading us to this point. The next step is to try it and see how it
goes.

As a trial, we would like to commit to a fairly short period of time
paid a flat weekly rate: *seven weeks at $1,000 per week.*

That gives us from now until the end of the year to try this and see
how it goes. At the end of that time we will re-evaluate our
arrangement in terms of time commitment, progress, and cost.
